Java History Questions
Why did the Java language develop?
When should we use C language & when should we use Java language?
What are the important features of Java?
Simple
Portable
Object oriented
Platform independent
Multithreaded
High in performance
Distributed

What is OAK?
Initial name of java
What is the abbreviation of Java?
nothing
What is platform, Platform Dependency, and Platform independence?
What is the meaning of source code, compiled code, executable code, compilation, execution, compiler & interpreter
Why are C, C++ programming languages platform-dependent?
How does java achieve platform independence?
Why is the JVM platform-dependent? Yes
What is Java's slogan? WORA
Explain why java is called a language, platform & technology

Java Software Interview questions
How many types of java softwares do we have?
What is the difference between JDK, JRE, JVM & JIT?
What is Java Plug-in?
What is Java SE & what is the difference between Java SE & JDK?
Will the JVM be installed automatically with the OS?
Do we have single Java software for all types of OS?
Why is Java called open source software?
Environment variables
What is an environment variable?
What is the difference between binary files and library files?
What is the difference between path, classpath & JAVA_HOME?
Why is “path” used by OS & why “classpath” is used by compiler or JVM?
Who will use JAVA_HOME?
What are the different ways to set path & classpath variables?

Java programming elements
What is package & sub-package, what is the use of it?
What is an interface & its use?
What is an abstract class & its use?
What is a class & its use?
What is a final class & its use?
What is an enum & its use?
What is an annotation & its use?
What is a variable & its use?
What is a method & its use?
What is a constructor & its use?
What is a block & its use?
What is an inner class & its use?
Difference between class, abstract class, final class, interface
Can we write business logic in a constructor?
What is the use of an import statement?
What is the difference between static import and import?
What is the procedure to develop, compile & execute java programs?

Java source file level questions
Can we create an empty java file, compile & execute it?
Can we create an empty class, can we compile & execute it?
Is the main method mandatory for compilation or for execution?
Is it mandatory that the java file name & class name should be the same? No
When should a Java file name and class name be the same?
Why should java file name & public class name be the same?
What is the entry point of java class execution?
In a single java file, how many classes can we define?
    Ans. Any number of classes but classes should not be public
If a java file has multiple classes, what is the java file name?
In a single java file, how many public classes can we define? only one
If a java source file has multiple classes, how many .class files are generated by the compiler?
    Ans. .class will be generated for every class
Can we compile multiple classes at a time? Yes
Can we execute multiple classes at a time? Yes
What is a user-defined method?
Will JVM execute user-defined methods automatically?
What is the rule in calling a user-defined method?
What are the two keywords we have in Java to provide memory to class members?
What is the difference between static & new keywords?
Why does not JVM execute user-defined methods, why does it execute only the main method?
How many user-defined methods can we create in a class?
What is the order of execution of user-defined methods?
If a class does not have the main method how can we execute that class method?
If a java file has multiple classes, can we define the main method in all classes?
Can we call the main method explicitly, what is the syntax to call the main method explicitly?
What will happen if we call the main method in its own body?
Can we overload the main method?
If we overload the main method, which main method will be executed?
If we create every class in a separate java file, how can we call one class method from another class; in this case should we compile each class separately?
What is the meaning of auto-compilation?
What is the difference between
System.out.print()
System.out.println()
System.out.printf()
What is the java source file structure?
Can we place a package statement anywhere in the java file?
Can we place an import statement anywhere in the java file?
How many package statements can we place in the java file?
How many import statements can we place in the java file?

Main method questions
What is the purpose of the main method?
What is the valid main method syntax?
If we create a class with a name String, then will the main method be executed?
Why should the main method be public?
Why should the main method be static?
What is the right order to place public & static?
Why does the main method have void, can we change void to some other type?
Why is the main method name is main?
What is the use of the main method parameter?
Why should the main method parameter type be String[], can we change it to another type?
Which part of the main method can be changed?
Can we add the final keyword to the main method? No
Can we also call the main method explicitly?

